This is team 1 from SC1015 lab group FCS1. This is the github containing all our code and other resources for our mini project. Our group has chosen a dataset comprising of 120000 chest x-ray images and the diseases each is labeled with. There are 15 labels, 14 diseases and 1 "no finding" label. Patients can have any combination of the 15 labels, meaning they can have 1-15 different labels or diagnosis. 

We have trained and used 5 different models. We initially trained our own simple 3-layer convolutional neural network (CNN) with 32,64,64 filters per layer respectively, however only achieved 54% accuracy on the validation set. In our attempt to raise the accuracy, we then increased our convolutional layers to 4 and double the filters per layer. However, our accuracy dropped to 53%, which we suspected was due to the epoch or training cycle (1st model had 5, the 2nd only 3).

We then decided to switch gears and use the ResNet-50, which is a pre-trained model with 48 convolutional layers. However, our accuracy was still at around 53%. Since we were experiencing similar accuracies with different models, we took another look at our dataset. We discovered that we had significant class imbalances across our dataset, which could introduce bias into our model and reduce its accuracy. We attempted to solve this issue with class specific weights, and retrained our ResNet-50 model, along with some other tweaks. This yieled an accuracy of 57.66%.

Finally, to experiment, we only used single label x-rays which increased our accuracy to 65%. This was expected as the task is much easier. 

